---
layout: post
title: Kubectx
author: Kevser Sirca
categories: [kubectx]
tags: [kubectx, kubectl]
---

kubectx is a utility to manage and switch between kubectl(1) contexts. Thanks for this [Ahmet Alp Balkan](https://github.com/ahmetb). 

### How to install on OSX

You can to install with [manual](https://github.com/ahmetb/kubectx) or package manager. If you want to install with brew or macports, follow the command:

##### Homebrew

```js
brew install kubectx
```
#### Macports
```js
sudo port install kubectx
```

#### Kubectx Commands

{% highlight js %}
kubectx -h
USAGE:
kubectx                       : list the contexts
kubectx <NAME>                : switch to context <NAME>
kubectx -                     : switch to the previous context
kubectx -c, --current         : show the current context name
kubectx <NEW_NAME>=<NAME>     : rename context <NAME> to <NEW_NAME>
kubectx <NEW_NAME>=.          : rename current-context to <NEW_NAME>
kubectx -u, --unset           : unset the current context
kubectx -d <NAME> [<NAME...>] : delete context <NAME> ('.' for current-context)
(this command won't delete the user/cluster entry
referenced by the context entry)
kubectx -h,--help             : show this message
kubectx -V,--version          : show version
{% endhighlight%}

### How to merge clusters

If there are more clusters in config file, you can combine these files with the `kubectl config view` command.

For example, i have two kubeconfig file. These are stagging.yml and prod.yml. I merged with this command.

```js
KUBECONFIG=stagging.yml:prod.yml kubectl config view --merge --flatten > ~/.kube/config
```

### Lets get to know Kubectx

{% highlight js %}
➜  kubectx
kubernetes-admin@saturn
kubernetes-admin@saturn-prod
<b>kubernetes-admin@saturn-stagging</b>
{% endhighlight%}

for switch

{% highlight js %}
➜  kubectx  kubernetes-admin@saturn-prod
✔ Switched to context "kubernetes-admin@saturn-prod".
{% endhighlight%}

and rename context name
{% highlight js %}
➜  kubectx prod=kubernetes-admin@saturn-prod
✔ Context kubernetes-admin@saturn-prod renamed to prod.
{% endhighlight%}

I hope it was useful.

Happy Friday!



